AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnBenjamin Kramer in his second time at bat, so to speak.By Deb AmlenTUESDAY PUZZLE — When we last saw Benjamin Kramer, he was charming us with compliments, but today he’s up to something different.Are you set to solve? That’s a hint but not a spoiler.1A: It took me a surprisingly long time to realize this, but the entry DQ’ED has nothing to do with Dairy Queen. If you’ve been “Barred from competition, briefly,” you have been disqualified, or DQ’ED for short.9D: No, I didn’t know “Molybdenite, for molybdenum” either. But the crossings were fairly gentle, and they enabled me to get the answer ORE.36D: If I had to make a Venn diagram of crossword puzzle solvers and “Star Wars” fans, I would bet that the results would be almost a perfect circle. So tell me, constructors, how is the planet TATOOINE just making its New York Times Crossword debut today?We’re playing VOLLEYBALL with Mr. Kramer, and I hope you kept that ball up in the air.The last words of each of the four theme entries are volleyball moves, starting with SERVICE and showing the BUMP-SET-SPIKE progression.Did you miss your shot? Click on any clue to help you up your game:17A. Empty talk not backed by action LIP SERVICE24A. Boost after appearing on a certain old Comedy Central show COLBERT BUMP36A. Product from RCA or LGTELEVISION SET47A. Symbol of the completion of the Transcontinental RailroadGOLDEN SPIKE57A. Sport hinted at by the ends of 17-, 24-, 36- and 47-Across Revealer: VOLLEYBALLAs a lifelong volleyball player, I have a soft spot for this puzzle. Not everyone knows the sport inside out, though, so I feared the idea might be too rinky-dink and get blocked. Still, I hope you dig it.The classic bump-set-spike progression seemed ripe for a crossword theme. I was lucky to find symmetric entries among limited options for bump and spike, so the grid came together without my typical struggle. The puzzle was originally submitted with SOFT SERVE and THE BIG DIG replacing LIP SERVICE and VOLLEYBALL. Will and Sam were rightfully concerned that an early-week theme would be lost on some solvers without a revealer.If anyone’s ever looked at the team names in a volleyball league, you know the sport lends itself to punning (shout out to my teammates on “That’s What She Set”). I wanted badly to come up with a groan-worthy revealer in that tradition. Alas no great ideas were forthcoming, so I went with the direct approach and resubmitted as is.Thanks to the editing team for their guidance and for working the clues into Tuesday shape. Thanks also for leaving intact mentions of my favorite book and TV show (“Catch-22” and “The Wire”). I hope my devoted, test-solving dad will also appreciate seeing “The African Queen.” Happy puzzling!Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. 