AdvertisementSupported byBy Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. A portrait of the White House’s culture of dishonesty emerged from the special counsel’s 448-page report that was released Thursday.At one juncture after another, President Trump made his troubles worse, giving in to anger and grievance and lashing out in ways that turned advisers into witnesses against him. Above, the president on Thursday.Our reporters spoke with Americans across the country, many of whom agree on one thing: They are disgusted with the country’s leaders and the breakdown of functional government.What’s next? Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has been asked to testify before the House Judiciary Committee by May 23. Read our profile of the mysterious figure behind the investigation, including his weekly Friday-night ritual of dining at a dimly lit, mostly empty restaurant near his home. He usually ordered white wine and scallops._____2. In other Washington news:House Democrats issued a subpoena for the unredacted report and all of its underlying evidence, escalating a fight with the attorney general over what material Congress is entitled to see. Above, Representative Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary,  defended her statement that “countless” F.B.I. employees had lost faith in James Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump. She told investigators for the special counsel last summer that it was a “slip of the tongue.”_____3. The architect who oversaw the design of the Notre-Dame cathedral’s fire safety system acknowledged that officials had miscalculated how quickly fire could spread through the cathedral.Benjamin Mouton, the architect, told The Times he was “stunned” by the speed. Fire safety experts said he should have known better.The fire alarms in the attic of Notre Dame did not immediately notify fire dispatchers. Instead, a guard at the cathedral first had to climb a steep set of stairs to the attic — a trip that would take a “fit” person six minutes to complete, Mr. Mouton said.Even a flawless response would have a built-in delay of about 20 minutes from the moment the alarm sounded until firefighters could arrive._____4. In other international news:A journalist in Northern Ireland, Lyra McKee, above, was killed while covering a night of violent unrest in Londonderry. Police blamed militants opposed to British rule there, and said they were treating it as a terrorist episode.Less than 1 percent of England’s population — including aristocrats, royals and wealthy investors — owns about half of the land, according to an upcoming book.We also looked at the gaps in international law regarding cruise ships. A recent reported sexual assault case aboard a Mediterranean cruise ship highlighted that legal ambiguity when a Spanish judge released the detained suspect, saying Spain had no jurisdiction._____5. Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., a rising star in the 2020 Democratic field, above, fired his city’s first black police chief in 2012.In the years that followed, the move unleashed a blizzard of claims, counterclaims and lawsuits.Why? There were allegations that the police chief, Darryl Boykins, had improperly taped phone calls of senior white officers who were said to have used racist language, including about him. The F.B.I. was investigating Mr. Boykins for it.Some are now scrutinizing Mr. Buttigieg’s commitment to black voters. He has said he can’t release the tapes because of federal and state wiretapping laws and an ongoing lawsuit.In other 2020 news, Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the House of Representatives to begin impeachment proceedings against President Trump._____6. A right-wing militia in southern New Mexico, above, is stopping families and detaining them at gunpoint before handing them over to Border Patrol agents.The act is raising tension over the tactics of armed vigilantes along the border between the U.S. and Mexico. Human rights groups compared it to kidnapping, and the state’s attorney general said the group should “not attempt to exercise authority reserved for law enforcement.”In a video uploaded by the militia group, a group of migrants can be seen kneeling on the ground and embracing one another._____7. A video of a black Columbia University student being pinned down by security officers is becoming a flashpoint for racism on campus.Alexander McNab, the student, above, said he had grown tired of being asked to show identification when other students weren’t. After he refused, he was forcibly pinned down by public safety officers.“What I realized,” he said, “is every time I show my I.D. when I’m asked, the conversation about this remains silent.”_____8. There are 311 female ice hockey players in India, which has only five indoor rinks and a sports culture dominated by cricket and field hockey.We talked to the national women’s ice hockey team of India, above, which relies on outside organizations and crowdsourcing for equipment and funding. The players dream of playing in the Olympics, even though it is a long way off.“Even our families are like, ‘What are you doing? Get a job,’” said Diskit Angmo, a 22-year-old player. “Sometimes I get frustrated, sometimes I’m like, ‘What the hell?’ But then the passion comes up.”_____9. The Bauhaus school, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary, changed everything from furniture to graphic design. But the Bauhaus’s biggest legacy is in architecture.That legacy extends around the globe because the Nazis forced its closure in 1933, scattering Bauhaus teachers, students and aesthetics. We looked at where the school’s legacy stood in Argentina, Nigeria, Israel, Australia, Iraq, the United States and India. Above, Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria, built by an architect who studied at the school.To further inspire you, we asked a few of our favorite artists to select the five minutes of music that will make you fall in love with classical piano. Take a listen._____10. Finally, baby fever.Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, pictured above in March, are already bucking some of the centuries-old traditions around the royal baby. We looked at 100 years of photos from our archive that featured royal baby traditions.We also looked at the economy around the child, who is already inspiring wagers, luxury cookie tins and diamond-encrusted jars of diaper rash cream. And we covered the rise of those doing stand-up comedy while pregnant.Have a sweet weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.