AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperThe Alliance of American Football is planning to suspend operations and will not play games this weekend, according to three people familiar with the decision who were not authorized to speak publicly.The league isn’t officially folding, the people said Tuesday, at least not yet. An official announcement about its status was expected soon. In a statement, Bill Polian, one of the league’s founders, confirmed the decision and expressed disappointment.The Alliance is the latest in a long line of upstart professional football leagues that tried and failed to capitalize on the seemingly insatiable appetite for the sport in America. Because the N.F.L. draws an average of about 15 million viewers for each game over its five-month season, the start-up owners tend to assume that a new league with just a fraction of that audience will succeed.It hasn’t turned out that way.Since the American Football League merged with the N.F.L. in 1970, there has been the World Football League, the United States Football League, the once and future XFL, the United Football League and others. While they have had varying business models, franchise locations and opinions on the best calendar for football, none of the leagues has yet found the right formula for sustained success.Now it seems the Alliance for American Football will soon follow them to the grave.The league’s chief executive and co-founder, Charlie Ebersol, probably should have known better. He the son of Dick Ebersol, the longtime NBC Sports chairman who started the first iteration of the XFL nearly 20 years ago, alongside the professional wrestling impresario Vince McMahon. That league folded after a single season.With the help of Polian, the former general manager of the Indianapolis Colts, Ebersol secured distribution deals for some of the league’s games on CBS, TNT and the NFL Network, a strong sign for a new league. The deals included little cash, however, according to two of the people.“I think there is a blind spot for most people that want to start professional sports leagues,” said Michael Huyghue, who was the commissioner of the United Football League. “The biggest issue is: What is the revenue stream? What is the revenue model?” The U.F.L. began play in 2009 and ceased operations in 2012.Most leagues require substantial television rights payments to survive, as well as a critical mass of ticket sales. Both are difficult to obtain for an unproven league. Knowing how substantial the start-up costs would be, the Alliance tried to justify its operations by comparing itself to a Silicon Valley tech company that expects to lose money for years while creating value. Ebersol believed the league’s technology and readiness for legalized gambling would make it a success.From the beginning, Ebersol had modest expectations for Year One.“There are going to be empty seats for quite some time, but we are committed to long-term investment around the idea,” he said in an interview in February, shortly before the season began.He estimated the Alliance would require $500 million to $750 million during the first five years.“You have to justify that expense, because either you are an eccentric billionaire creating a football league or raising really smart money that is patient,” Ebersol said.The Alliance’s eight teams, clustered in the Southeast and Southwest, began play after the Super Bowl. They have each played eight regular season games, with the championship game scheduled for April 27 in Frisco, Tex.But almost from the beginning, there were signs that things weren’t going well, including reports that the league had almost missed payroll.Last week the league’s controlling owner, Tom Dundon, told USA Today that the league was in danger of folding because it hadn’t secured an agreement with the N.F.L. and the N.F.L. Players Association to allow young players from N.F.L. rosters to work in the Alliance.“If the players union is not going to give us young players, we can’t be a development league,” said Dundon, who is also the owner of the N.H.L.’s Carolina Hurricanes. Just two weeks into the Alliance’s game schedule, he committed up to $250 million and became the controlling owner.But to Huyghue, whose United Football League lasted almost four seasons, that was the wrong focus.“Everyone keeps thinking players, players, players,” he said. “That doesn’t solve your revenue problem.”Polian’s statement blamed Dundon for the decision to suspend the league. “When Mr. Dundon took over, it was the belief of my co-founder, Charlie Ebersol, and myself that we would finish the season, pay our creditors, and make the necessary adjustments to move forward in a manner that made economic sense for all,” Polian said.Dundon could not be reached for comment.Despite the poor track record, the Alliance surely won’t be the last attempt to start a new professional football league. McMahon is reviving the XFL, which is to begin play next year, and last week he sold almost $272 million in World Wrestling Entertainment stock to support the venture, according to a company filing. The Pacific Pro League, founded by Don Yee, Tom Brady’s agent, is also set to start playing next year.The A.A.F.’s decision to shut down has immediate repercussions for at least one of the Alliance’s partners. Saturday afternoon’s game between Memphis and San Antonio was scheduled to be shown on CBS, serving as the lead-in to the two men’s Final Four college basketball games.