AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonCanadian children age 12 and younger will no longer be able to play the fullest version of tackle football starting in 2022. The restriction was devised by Football Canada, the sanctioning body for youth football in the country, as the latest in a series of steps to protect players from concussions and potential long-term cognitive problems.Randy Ambrosie, the commissioner of the Canadian Football League, which works closely with Football Canada, announced the change Wednesday in Ottawa at a parliamentary hearing on concussions and sports.“While we enthusiastically support tackle football for older age groups, we are putting a huge emphasis on flag football for young girls and boys,” Ambrosie said.Football Canada has a number of categories for the versions of tackle football children can play and when they can do so. Already, children 8 or younger are not allowed to play tackle football. Children 10 and younger are allowed to play only six-on-six tackle football, or non-contact versions of the game, like flag football.The new rule for will prohibit children 12 and under from playing 12-on-12 football, the version of the game used in Canadian colleges and in professional leagues. Children from 10 to 12 years old will still be able to play six-on-six tackle football and nine-on-nine, as well as non-contact football.Some research has shown that people who started playing tackle football before age 12 were at greater risk of developing cognitive problems later in life, compared with those who started playing tackle football after age 12.In some ways, Canada has taken more steps to protect its players than the United States has. In 2017, for instance, the Canadian Football League barred players from deliberately slamming into one another during regular-season practices, and while they still wear helmets, they no longer wear shoulder pads and other protective gear in practices.The N.F.L. has reduced, but not eliminated, full-contact practices during the season. The Ivy League is the only United States college conference to have ended full-contact football practices in the regular season.The C.F.L. also added a third bye week to its 18-game calendar so there would be more time between games for players to recover.Ambrosie, who played nine seasons in the C.F.L. and became commissioner of the league in 2017, has accelerated the introduction of safety measures partly to ward off potential lawsuits, but also to restore confidence in the sport, which has been losing players faster than in the United States.The number of children in Canada playing tackle or non-contact forms of football has plummeted since 2010, to 100,000 from 170,000, according to government surveys and research by the C.F.L.“Support for football in this country is underwhelming and disappointing,” Ambrosie told lawmakers in the House of Commons Subcommittee on Sports-Related Concussions. “At times it can feel like it’s under attack.”