AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellBOULDER, Colo. — The University of Colorado hired a new football coach in December, and as coaches are wont to do, he talked tough.“Our team, we will be physical,” Coach Mel Tucker said at his introductory news conference. “My dad always told me the name of the game is hit, hit, H-I-T. There is always a place on the field for someone who will hit.”He was preaching that old-style pigskin religion. Unfortunately, Tucker, who came from the University of Georgia, runs a football program that has produced at least a half-dozen players — including several who played in the N.F.L. — who have killed themselves. Other former players are alive but afflicted by severe post-concussion problems.Two university regents, dissenters from the Church of Hit, Hit and Hit, read Tucker’s remarks and shook their heads. A few days later, these heretics voted against his five-year, $14.75 million contract. They could not block the contract, but another cannon had been fired in the football concussion wars.Linda Shoemaker, one of the regents, described her pilgrimage from casual fandom to casting a vote against football.“I really thought at first that we could play football safely with better rules and better equipment; I drank the Kool-Aid,” she told me. “I can’t go there anymore. I don’t believe it can be played safely anymore. I want these young men to leave C.U. with minds that have been strengthened, not damaged.”[Read Michael Powell’s account of a Colorado player struggling with head trauma.]The N.F.L. long ago settled on a tobacco-industry stance toward the damage done by concussions and subconcussive hits; its officials have covered up and obfuscated and, only reluctantly, conceded liability for the many hundreds of former players left with minds that fade in and out like old television sets. It is a $14 billion industry, and acting in its pecuniary interests is deplorable but perhaps not surprising.The nation’s universities face a more ticklish problem known as morality. These institutions were founded with the purpose of developing and educating young minds. It is difficult to square that mission with the fate of those like running back Rashaan Salaam, who ran so beautifully for the University of Colorado and then as a pro, and like Drew Wahlroos, a fearless, rampaging Colorado linebacker. Both men suffered emotional and cognitive problems that friends and family and even university officials related to thousands of hits taken over the course of their careers. Each killed himself.There are, too, those like Ryan Miller. I wrote about him Wednesday, an intelligent and introspective giant of a young man and a former stalwart offensive lineman for the University of Colorado who at age 29 suffers migraines and the shakes and once in a while gets into his car and has to think many minutes before recalling where he intended to go.I came to Boulder because of these outspoken regents and because of Bob Carmichael, a long-ago player at Colorado, who has taken upon himself the role of moral goad and pushed others to speak out. “I try to tell players that risking your future when you are in your early 20s is a stupid concept that many players, myself included, regret,” Carmichael said.Thanks to these three, the University of Colorado has come closer than most institutions to wrestling with an urgent question: Is running a college football program unconscionable?“We should move in the direction of offering lifelong insurance and medical care for football players who become badly damaged,” said John Kroll, the other regent who voted against the coach’s contract. “But to do that is an implicit acknowledgment this game is incredibly dangerous to play.”I spoke with the chancellor, the athletic director, two doctors and the chief trainer, who talked a lot about safety and sounded earnest. They have built a beautiful sports medicine center into the side of their football stadium, a placement that occupies a land between admirable and sadly metaphoric. Their staff teaches nutrition and healthy habits, and they have spotters in the stands who look to see if a coach has missed a player grown too wobbly on the field. Their football team, like many others, has limited the practices in which players are made to tackle and hit.They have embraced the current college vogue for studies of the effects of rattling hits on brain health. The N.C.A.A. and the Defense Department are working on a study, as is the Big Ten-Ivy League Traumatic Brain Injury Research Collaboration. Now the University of Colorado, as part of the Pac-12 Conference, has a Student-Athlete Health and Well-Being Concussion Coordinating Unit.This is grand. Yet I wondered if they could save themselves time and money and read the work of the Boston University chronic traumatic encephalopathy center, which found evidence of degenerative brain disease in 99 percent of brains obtained from deceased N.F.L. players and 91 percent of college football players and 21 percent of those who played high school football.It’s perhaps worth noting that college football players who experience head trauma are not eligible for workers’ compensation or disability benefits. They are not, after all, employees.Universities, Colorado included, have scientists and doctors beavering away at efforts to create safer helmets. I asked Miller, the former offensive lineman, about this, and he said that better helmets mostly make players feel like cruise missiles.Dr. Sherrie Ballantine works at the sports medicine center, and she is certainly not a football abolitionist, but she too sounded dubious of an armament fix.“The more you pad a player, the more aggressive and stupid they play,” she said. “We’re better off padding the goal posts.”Miguel Rueda, the associate athletic director for health and performance, noted that the staff trains freshman football players to speak up if injured. “We go over the risk of injury because there is a tie to mental health from any injury,” Rueda said. “They are encouraged to understand their part in the injury process.”Have you ever, I asked, suggested that incoming freshmen read synopses of the Boston University reports before they signed their health waivers and embarked on a football career?Rueda saw no reason for that.“There is no proven direct link between concussion and C.T.E.,” he said. “There are a number of people who are out there actively pursuing the investigative process.”That answer sidesteps the key point. There is much unknown about brain trauma and C.T.E., including the role of individual body chemistry and the precise nature of the most dangerous hits. Those brains studied, by definition, came from men who worried about brain degeneration. Still it appears irrefutable that a link exists, and that nutrition and better ways of tackling and blocking will most likely not change that.No freshman player, Rueda said, ever declined to sign a health waiver.I sought the counsel of Brian Cabral on the question of better training. He was a magnificent linebacker at the University of Colorado and played nine years in the N.F.L., earning a Super Bowl ring with the Chicago Bears. Then he returned to Colorado and became a linebacker coach.He recruited the running back Salaam and coached the linebacker Wahlroos, both of whom are dead. He also coached Ted Johnson, a brilliant linebacker who has spoken with aching honesty of his struggles with depression and memory loss after more concussions than he can count.Cabral loves the band of brothers aspect of football, and yet he cannot dodge the shadows. He knows too much, and several times during our conversation he paused, choked up.“I hate to say this, but I taught players what I was taught,” he said.And what was that technique?“Put your helmet right in the guy’s jaw and drive up through his throat to his head,” he said. “I regret it, I really do.”I noted that officials said better technique might offer a sort of salvation. He nodded yes, and then quickly shook his head. “They try to take the head out of tackling, but come on,” he said. “We bang heads and guys get concussions.”In a few weeks, spring football practices would begin; in late April, the team will play a televised game, kicked off by a “Healthy Kids” session for middle schoolers.Shoemaker is a former journalist and now a grandmother, and several times she has walked down to the football field and just listened. “It’s frightening to hear the hits,” she said. “We have physicians there, but they all work for the university and they are very much in favor of football.”She added: “Hard hits lead to head trauma, and that makes lives more brutal. I can’t do this anymore. I don’t think the game can be played safely.”If I cast my dice, I’d roll in the direction of Shoemaker’s bottom line.